There's one final piece of transitions,
which is we can distinguish
between what we call global transitions,
and local transitions.
Ordinarily, the transition will play
whenever an element is created,
or destroyed.
Regardless, of the state change that
led to that element being created, or
destroyed.
So for example, we want these
transitions to apply when the length
of this block is changed.
But if we toggle, whether the list as a
whole is shown, we don't want this effect.
We want the list to vanish
altogether in an instant, and
then come back in an instant.
And the way that we can do that
is by taking this mark up, and
making this a local transition.
Which means that it will only apply,
when this is the thing that
changed as opposed to this.
And just like with event modifiers,
we modify our transition
by adding a pipe like so.
And adding the name of the modifier,
which is local.
So, now this is going to work
the same way as before but,
when we toggle this the elements vanish,
and reappear instantly.
Now before, when we implemented
our own transition function,
we returned an object containing
the transition options directly.
But there are some situations,
in which you don't yet
have the information that you need,
to return that object.
An example would be,
if two transitions are happening and
they need to be aware of each other,
in some way.
So what you can do, is you can return
instead of the options object you,
can return a promise that
resolves to that option objects.
So an example of why you would need this
is, if you have a set of elements, and
you want them to look as though they're
transitioning from one side to the other,
Instead of just appearing and
disappearing, right?
So, we want these two dues to move from
the to do list, to the done list, and
then back again in a graceful
manner that more Accurately,
reflects how objects
behave in the real world.
And is therefore,
a nicer experience for users, and
the way that we do this in spell, is with
something called the crossfade function.
Crossfade returns a pair of transitions
that talk to each other, so
returns an array, and we're gonna destruct
that array into send, and receive.
And this is quite involved, so I'm not
gonna walk through all the code but,
we're just gonna go through the tutorial.
Find the label element on line 65, and
add those send, and receive transitions.
Down here, lines 65.
On intransition we're gonna receive.
And we're gonna pass it the key, which
is gonna allow spell to get the send,
and receive the correspond to each other.
But then we're gonna do the same thing for
the other label element, down here.
This is representing the two
dues that have already,
been done which is the list
of two dues on the right.
And now if I've set this up correctly,
when I toggle one of these items,
it's gonna move gracefully
from one side to the other.
That's pretty good, but it's not perfect
because when we toggle buy some milk for
example, even though that to do will move
smoothly, to the bottom of the to do list.
The other three items are gonna jump
into their new place, which isn't ideal.
So we're gonna fix that
in the next chapter.